README.md, before:

# GitHub-Backup

## Description

GitHub-Backup makes a local backup copy of all of a github user's (or github organization's) repositories.

## Dependencies

GitHub-Backup requires the `PyGitHub` Python package for the GitHub API v3.

Installation is simple with

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

```
usage: github-backup.py [-h] [-v {all,public,private}]
                        [-a {owner,collaborator,organization_member}] [-d]
                        [-q] [-m] [-f] [-g ARGS [ARGS ...]]
                        [-t {git,http,ssh}] [-s SUFFIX] [-p PASSWORD]
                        [-P PREFIX] [-o ORG]
                        login_or_token backupdir

makes a backup of all of a github user's repositories

positional arguments:
  login_or_token        A Github username or token
  backupdir             The folder where you want your backups to go

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -v {all,public,private}, --visibility {all,public,private}
                        Filter repos by their visibility
  -a {owner,collaborator,organization_member}, --affiliation {owner,collaborator,organization_member}
                        Filter repos by their affiliation
  -d, --debug           Show debug info
  -q, --quiet           Only show errors
  -m, --mirror          Create a bare mirror
  -f, --skip-forks      Skip forks
  -g ARGS [ARGS ...], --git ARGS [ARGS ...]
                        Pass extra arguments to git
  -t {git,http,ssh}, --type {git,http,ssh}
                        Select the protocol for cloning
  -s SUFFIX, --suffix SUFFIX
                        Add suffix to repository directory names
  -p PASSWORD, --password PASSWORD
                        Authenticate with Github API
  -P PREFIX, --prefix PREFIX
                        Add prefix to repository directory names
  -o ORG, --organization ORG
                        Backup Organizational repositories
```

Then, put it in a cron job somewhere and forget about it for eternity.

# How To Back Up Entire GitHub Organisation Repos

1. Install Dependencies: `sudo pip install pygithub3`
2. Clone this repo using `$ git clone https://github.com/clockfort/GitHub-Backup.git`
3. Just open the cloned repo folder and run the terminal:

```bash
./github-backup.py [Your GitHub Username] [Path To Saving Directory] -o [For Organisation]
```

Example:

```bash
./github-backup.py mohamed786 /home/mohamed786/githubbak -o LineageOS
```

## Why This Software Exists

This software is useful in many cases:

  - GitHub suddenly explodes.
  - GitHub goes out of business.
  - Your corporation's backup policies are more stringent than GitHub's.
  - You have spotty/no internet access - perhaps you'd like to have all of your repositories available to code on while you ride the train?
  - You are paranoid tinfoil-hat wearer who needs to back up everything in triplicate on a variety of outdated tape media.


## Questions, Improvements, Etc

If you have any improvements, I'm happy, (grateful, in fact) to entertain pull requests/patches, just drop me a line or message me on GitHub.

## Contributors

Idea/original implementation by 

- Chris Lockfort (clockfort@csh.rit.edu) (Github: Clockfort)
  (Original idea)

- Anthony Gargiulo (anthony@agargiulo.com) (Github: agargiulo)
  (Python version)

- Steffen Vogel (post@steffenvogel.de) (Github: stv0g)
  (A lot of patches and improvements)

Commit message:

add a note for using PAT instead of password.

README.md, after:

# GitHub-Backup

## Description

GitHub-Backup makes a local backup copy of all of a github user's (or github organization's) repositories.

## Dependencies

GitHub-Backup requires the `PyGitHub` Python package for the GitHub API v3.

Installation is simple with

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

```
usage: github-backup.py [-h] [-v {all,public,private}]
                        [-a {owner,collaborator,organization_member}] [-d]
                        [-q] [-m] [-f] [-g ARGS [ARGS ...]]
                        [-t {git,http,ssh}] [-s SUFFIX] [-p PASSWORD]
                        [-P PREFIX] [-o ORG]
                        login_or_token backupdir

makes a backup of all of a github user's repositories

positional arguments:
  login_or_token        A Github username or token
  backupdir             The folder where you want your backups to go

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -v {all,public,private}, --visibility {all,public,private}
                        Filter repos by their visibility
  -a {owner,collaborator,organization_member}, --affiliation {owner,collaborator,organization_member}
                        Filter repos by their affiliation
  -d, --debug           Show debug info
  -q, --quiet           Only show errors
  -m, --mirror          Create a bare mirror
  -f, --skip-forks      Skip forks
  -g ARGS [ARGS ...], --git ARGS [ARGS ...]
                        Pass extra arguments to git
  -t {git,http,ssh}, --type {git,http,ssh}
                        Select the protocol for cloning
  -s SUFFIX, --suffix SUFFIX
                        Add suffix to repository directory names
  -p PASSWORD, --password PASSWORD
                        Authenticate with Github API
  -P PREFIX, --prefix PREFIX
                        Add prefix to repository directory names
  -o ORG, --organization ORG
                        Backup Organizational repositories
```

Then, put it in a cron job somewhere and forget about it for eternity.

## How To Back Up Entire GitHub Organisation Repos

1. Install Dependencies: `sudo pip install pygithub3`
2. Clone this repo using `$ git clone https://github.com/clockfort/GitHub-Backup.git`
3. Just open the cloned repo folder and run the terminal:

```bash
./github-backup.py [Your GitHub Username] [Path To Saving Directory] -o [For Organisation]
```

Example:

```bash
./github-backup.py mohamed786 /home/mohamed786/githubbak -o LineageOS
```

## Use a a personal access token (PAT) instead of your password

You can generate a dedicated personal access token instead of using your GitHub password.

Follow the steps described [here in the GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token) and use the token instead of your password.
Using a PAT can also work around issues when two factor authentication (TFA) is enabled on your account.


## Why This Software Exists

This software is useful in many cases:

  - GitHub suddenly explodes.
  - GitHub goes out of business.
  - Your corporation's backup policies are more stringent than GitHub's.
  - You have spotty/no internet access - perhaps you'd like to have all of your repositories available to code on while you ride the train?
  - You are paranoid tinfoil-hat wearer who needs to back up everything in triplicate on a variety of outdated tape media.


## Questions, Improvements, Etc

If you have any improvements, I'm happy, (grateful, in fact) to entertain pull requests/patches, just drop me a line or message me on GitHub.

## Contributors

Idea/original implementation by 

- Chris Lockfort (clockfort@csh.rit.edu) (Github: Clockfort)
  (Original idea)

- Anthony Gargiulo (anthony@agargiulo.com) (Github: agargiulo)
  (Python version)

- Steffen Vogel (post@steffenvogel.de) (Github: stv0g)
  (A lot of patches and improvements)
